## d3d12-ubench

This is a tool to run compute shader microbenchmarks.
Intended to test performance of the binding model for vkd3d-proton against native drivers
in different configurations.

### Build

Normal CMake. `dxc` needs to be found in path. On e.g. Arch Linux, DXC can be installed from
the repos, but on Windows, you may need to download DXC from the [repo](https://github.com/microsoft/DirectXShaderCompiler/releases/tag/v1.9.2602).
Configure with `cmake .. -DDXC=C:/path/to/dxc.exe` if needed.
Python interpreter access is also required to generate the shader build system,
but that should get picked up automatically.

### Loading d3d12 dynamically

`--d3d12` is used to pick a non-default path to d3d12 implementation.

#### Running against Linux native build of vkd3d-proton

By adding `--vkd3d-proton`, `--d3d12` is treated as path to `d3d12core` instead,
and a D3D12 device is created by loading vkd3d-proton private interfaces directly.
The reason for doing it this way is that it makes testing native D3D12 and
vkd3d-proton side-by-side on Windows more convenient since there is no need to replace
`d3d12.dll` which would interfere with ability to test native D3D12. See `comparative.sh`
as an example for Windows.

On Linux, something like this would be used:

```
d3d12-ubench --vkd3d-proton --d3d12 /path/to/vkd3d-proton/build/libs/d3d12core/libvkd3d-proton-d3d12core.so
```

### Updating and adding shaders

The shader build system is autogenerated from HLSL sources.
When adding new tests, make sure to re-run `cmake ..` to re-scan the HLSL files,
so that they're picked up. `${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/shaders/shaders.{hpp,cpp}` will be
updated accordingly.

### Self-capture in RenderDoc

To debug a test, add `--renderdoc` to the CLI and launch the microbench from RenderDoc.
Any included test will be run once and captured.

### UBench output

The output is trivial CSV. Example output:

```
$ d3d12-ubench --filter vmem_uint2 --output /tmp/test.csv
$ cat /tmp/test.csv
test,median,avg,stddev_percentage
srv_bab_vmem_uint2,9.64508e-10,9.82445e-10,11.3156
srv_structured_buffer_bindless_vmem_uint2,1.36139e-09,1.41043e-09,9.49407
srv_structured_buffer_uint16_bindless_vmem_uint2,1.57349e-09,1.64257e-09,17.4787
srv_structured_buffer_uint16_vmem_uint2,1.15829e-09,1.16104e-09,0.825832
srv_structured_buffer_vmem_uint2,2.28439e-09,2.18276e-09,8.50768
uav_bab_read_vmem_uint2,1.15707e-09,1.15962e-09,0.642414
```

### Comparative analysis

See `comparative.sh` for reference.
It runs a filter against three difference implementations
(native, descriptor buffer vkd3d-proton, descriptor heap vkd3d-proton) and sorts the output by outliers.